(suspenseful music)
Huh?
(trilling)
The Arche level is safe.
We can take our masks off.
(chuckles)
Outside air at last.
(grunts)
Humans are stuck in an endless war
after losing to machines
in just four months.
The machines began
an extensive reconstruction of the Earth.
Their final plan is to connect the Earth
and the moon with the Orbital Elevator.
Colonel, you said I have to get
to the Orbital Elevator.
(sighs)
COLONEL: Look.
Mm?
The cable from the moon continues
to stretch towards geosynchronous orbit.
Mm-hm.
By our calculations, the warped cable
with a total length of 360,000 kilometers
will connect to the Orbital Elevator
on the Earthside in two more weeks.
COLONEL: That's Dawn Fall Day.
Earth's final day. Humankind's deadline.
What?
The best-case scenario would be for us
to get to the Elevator on the Earthside
in time and destroy it, and we win?
Yeah. For that, we need
to cross the Iron Ocean first.
But the other side of the ocean
is Lunatic's territory.
Once we've crossed,
there's no guarantee we'll make it back.
Hey! I came along with you guys
to earn money for survival.
What? Aren't you all worried
about not getting home alive?
Not really. It's my duty.
I must find the Light House.
I'm going to follow Empress.
I'm going to kill Lunatic.
Jeez. Are they serious?
(slurps, sighs)
Now is our last chance.
There's no turning back from here.
Though I have no intention
of waiting for you to decide.
What?
(beeping)
What's happening?
Oh, sorry. That must be our fault.
There's no way to avoid being contaminated
by Arche when we're out fishing.
(both gasp)
Do you represent the fishers
taking us across the Iron Ocean?
Yes. I'm the captain of the fishers.
My name is Isana.
Pleased to make your acquaintance.
I didn't expect you to be so young.
Are you nervous?
No, I've found people
who don't engage in small talk
are efficient and trustworthy.
ISANA: Let's get down to business, then.
The ship is at the dock.
We can set sail any time.
Take me there.
(chuckles)
(whimpers)
(gasps softly)
MONICA: It was definitely
the biggest mistake of my life.
Monica.
You sure like studying.
I don't have anything else to do.
How about you going into the ocean
with a weak body? Are you insane?
It's okay. Why don't you come in, too,
and celebrate our friendship?
No way.
(whimpers)
Gosh. What are you doing, you idiot?
Nice. You're cute when you're wet, Monica.
You think you can get away with anything
just because you're pretty?
I think so.
I'd let you get away with anything.
(grunts)
Hold your breath.
MONICA: Then soon after,
she vanished,
leaving a note that said,
"I'm going to die soon."
EMPRESS: Monica.
Oh, hello.
Are you seasick?
I wish it was just seasickness.
Do you have a relationship
with that person?
I did, in the past.
I thought she was long dead.
We'll arrive on the opposite shore
around midnight.
Where are you headed?
Well, just to the moon.
It'll be a long trip.
We'll take the shortest route
across the Iron Ocean for you.
Hey, this ship looks pretty worn out.
Are you sure it's safe?
We purposely let Iron Ocean creatures
live on the ship's hull.
They serve as Arche countermeasures
and as camouflage against Gigantes...
(coughing)
(retches)
(gasps)
Arche contamination. Must be serious
if you're coughing up crystals.
The levels are high in the ocean air.
Gas masks don't do much
if you're here for long periods of time.
Poaching Iron Ocean creatures
as raw materials for batteries
make good money,
but it's hazardous to your health.
Is that why you accepted our offer
from the Peacebuilding Force?
Money to survive
and for settlement rights.
I can finally carry out my duties
as the fishers' captain.
Sex?
What? Why all of a sudden?
It's the act of love.
When I was distressed before,
you said it might help.
(sighs)
I see.
Well, you could say
I have a grown-up problem
that not even sex can solve.
Whoa!
Now? Here?
Quiet.
Iron Ocean creatures.
Not just them.
Gigantes?
(water splashes)
Jeez. That was so close.
(screeches)
Gross.
It's eating them.
Looks like it was hiding
in the ocean trench.
Monica!
Is this your damn fault again?
What do you mean "again"?
I've got nothing to do with this!
(buzzing)
-Bastards!
-ISANA: Stop.
Don't use guns on them.
The Swarm Division will hear the gunshots
and flock over here.
But we'll be eaten by Gigantes
if we do nothing.
Gigantes hasn't even noticed us yet.
COLONEL: What?
Our ship is disguised as a reef.
Leave it to me.
All right. Go ahead.
It's me. Stop the engine.
We'll wait till they pass.
(water splashing)
You were right.
Swarm Division.
It's a bit troublesome to battle them.
-We'll be okay. If we stay quiet, they...
-MONICA: Wow!
Keep quiet, or I'll dump you
in the Iron Ocean, Monica!
Just look at that.
(snickers)
I smell a big stash of money.
Be careful.
Okay. I'll be back.
You'd better be sure about there being
organic enhancement parts for Empress.
I'm positive.
We're detecting some pretty
big organic parts there.
MONICA: If Empress absorbs them,
future battles should become
much easier to win.
You aren't just trying to get
a hold of rare parts, are you?
(grunts)
For giant creatures,
they all seem to be tame.
Most Iron Ocean creatures
are surprisingly tame.
ISANA: But there are some
that are vicious.
We had to hurry back
with... Monica's loot.
Why did she stay on the ship?
This was her idea.
Well, maybe that's my fault.
STRENGTH: Whatever that means.
This place is full of bugs.
Good thing we left Dead Master
on the ship.
Why is that?
She's always really hated bugs.
If she were here,
she'd be shooting them left and right.
Bugs.
Bugs are scary. Bugs are gross.
(whimpers)
You know me from back
when we were at Light House Number Eight.
EMPRESS: You know how I was in the past.
That was the former you.
I don't remember much about those days
at the Light House...
Oh, by the way, why are you so small?
Never mind, it doesn't matter, I guess.
(soft exhale)
STRENGTH: One thing I remember
is that we had a discussion
about the "Plank of Carneades."
After a shipwreck, a plank supports
one survivor in the ocean.
The plank can only support one person.
Would it be okay for that person
to survive by letting others drown?
What was your answer?
I would push everybody off.
What was my answer?
Strength. Isana.
(thrilling music)
What...
(grunts)
(grunts in pain)
Crap!
I wouldn't push anyone off.
What does that mean?
My answer to the plank problem.
We're Hemiteos Units, so we wouldn't die.
I'd find a way for everyone to survive.
[inaudible]
You haven't changed.
What?
Just shut up and move over.
Are you all right?
We're fine. You can go back now.
Thanks for coming this far with us.
My answer might be,
"to jump in the ocean myself."
(hissing)
This is making me itchy.
Your skin is touching the Iron Ocean
and it's just itchy? How incredibly tough.
I detect the presence
of organic parts nearby.
A treasure chest hidden on an island, huh?
Wait a minute.
Why isn't Gigantes detecting it, too?
That is strange.
I have a bad feeling about this.
What the hell?
Gigantes. But it's dead.
EMPRESS: Should we go in? It's dead.
It doesn't matter because it's dead.
The least we can do
is effectively recycle it.
It's pitch-black.
We have the ability to see in the dark
if we try hard enough. Let's go.
Okay.
The captain has returned.
Empress and Strength aren't with her.
I wonder why?
STRENGTH: My Gigantic Arms are stuck
and I can't get through.
Did you find anything?
Yeah, I did.
-(warbles)
-(gasps)
SEITAI PARTS: Empress Code confirmed.
Restarting system.
What?
This thing is still alive.
I'm going to pull it out.
(grunts)
(rumbling)
(both yelp)
What's happening?
This shaking is not normal.
We're leaving now.
They're not back yet.
The safety of the ship comes first.
That is not acceptable to me.
SEITAI PARTS: Error. Update Empress Code.
Error. Update Empress Code.
We're safe for now.
(buzzing)
We're safe?
STRENGTH: I don't think so.
Whoa! This hurts!
-It's just itchy for you? Are you serious?
-Hm?
The shaking stopped.
We are going to wait for Empress.
That shaking was clearly abnormal.
Our safety is not guaranteed.
We must leave now.
Wait. From the looks of it,
I'm sure those two are responsible.
They can take care of themselves.
Let's go.
Colonel, do you really want
to die that badly?
(gasps)
DEAD MASTER: Empress!
(whimpering)
Die, you damn stalker bug!
Don't shoot, you idiot!
(weapon firing)
(suspenseful music)
Go!
They're coming. Swarm Division.
Oh, that's right.
I totally forgot guns are prohibited.
From this side, too.
(yelps)
Hey.
It's getting interesting.
(rumbles)
Whoa. Oh, no!
(yelping)
Phew! Thanks. Uh?
Huh? What are you doing?
I don't want to die yet.
Maybe I'll take this and run.
Be serious.
Are you trying to disappear
from my life again?
I don't have that long to live.
So I'll be the decoy.
I can't let you die, Monica.
(gasps, grunts)
-(coughing)
-(gasps)
(groaning)
Isana.
(quivering)
You're such an idiot.
-(grumbles)
-(weapon fires)
(explosions)
Empress! Above you!
(zapping)
I missed.
There's nowhere to hide.
We could get wiped out.
Monica, what are you doing?
It's getting rough,
so I'm leaving with the valuables.
Don't try to find me.
What is she now, a looter?
No. She's being a decoy.
I know that.
What should we do?
Dogs don't clean up after their own feces.
That's the owner's responsibility.
-Then...
-Go. Capture the deserter.
All right. I'm going to.
(action music)
Empress.
(grunts)
(gun zapping)
GUN: Cool down.
They've become easier to target.
Take that!
I wanted to tell you something
when you went away from me.
What's this all of a sudden?
Let me be with you when you die.
(gasps)
I will.
I'm not going to let you die, stupid.
Don't take away my reason to live again.
(growling)
(gasps)
Isana!
-Empress.
-(gasps)
(ethereal music)
SEITAI PARTS:
Empress Code update confirmed.
Starting RNA transcription.
Execute enhancement.
(zapping)
(sighs)
It's cold! I'm glad I brought a coat.
We've been waiting for you.
We'll guide you to the meeting point
for the Orbital Elevator Attack.
I'm counting on you.
And this is what you asked for.
How's Empress doing?
She's sleeping.
She seems to have a slight fever.
STRENGTH: She absorbed so much energy
all at once, so no wonder.
Though there were unexpected problems,
we crossed the Iron Ocean as planned.
Here's the payment we promised.
That's all?
That's the imminent danger pay.
I also got you
the land certificate you wanted.
(gasps)
ISANA: A settlement in San Diego.
Is anything the matter?
(chuckles)
No.
Thank you for these payments.
Have a safe journey, everybody.
So, what are you gonna do now?
Now? Of course, I'll continue on with you.
I'm convinced now that
there are more valuable items to be found.
(Monica giggles)
Monica.
What?
See you again.
I guess I'll be seeing you
when I get back.
Let's swim in the ocean together.
ISANA: This time, to commemorate our love.
No way.
(closing theme music)